there we go there he is yeah okay
now that in combination over here now we
got to get you on this I have a very
special
where I put it
and if you're getting reverb I have my
gaming headset that I can put on no way
awesome
should I just plug that in last time
there was reverbs it might be again if
it's the same setup
I think we've improved every we're
learning more Devon
oh god don't tell me about it how have
you I installed this thing called VST
host okay and then I have a I have like
a Yamaha mixer oh [ __ ] and so we're like
upgrading and I'm learning how to do
this thing called streaming what's it
like to have like 10,000 IQ dude like it
took me like two years to figure out oh
so definitely let's be clear when we say
when I say we're doing this stuff
someone who knows how to do this stuff
is doing it for me got it okay window
capture
so like literally I watched a YouTube
tutorial and and set up this set up this
stuff in then Tama nation time do you
know domination time they came by the
chat and I think I was like in the
middle of a talk so I didn't see them so
tom has been incredibly helpful but also
also was I've educated myself about
trolls and I I think I'm vastly
underestimated what trolls are capable
of yeah we had that conversation for the
before did we yeah I mean I still want
to talk to trolls on your channel and or
trolls on mine like I were thinking
about actually creating like a separate
like if you're a troll and you you know
like creating a separate email address
that trolls could email to come on
stream and talk about why they troll
things
I mean I'm sure you could get like a
self-conscious one at some point the but
like true trolls just want to watch the
world burn that's the problem with them
there's no there's no compromising with
them yeah so I mean I think if you give
them a microphone they won't like it
because that's not how they operate
right they like they like to throw fruit
and vegetables from the audience on the
stage leadership man I don't know I
think all they want is a microphone
interesting thing is about attention
that that's like it like the only way
that I've found to stop them is by
actually just ignoring them right here
yes so we'll we'll see what we end up
doing well this problem it's you I mean
I I would like to talk to trolls though
yeah I'm curious because I think you're
right like they want to watch the world
burn so the question is why do they want
to watch the world burn like what's
what's important about that to them
um do you know a do you know a dude
named Jordan Peterson yeah he probably
has the best view on this because he's
probably encountered the most amount of
trolls and his theory is that it's it's
a
expression of an inner hatred of the
world as a result of like a really nice
view on things so it's like you hate
your own existence and lack of purpose
so much that you despise anybody that
has yeah so I mean didn't we talk about
that last time we talked about trolls
like why are people trolling you know we
didn't cover that I thought we did I
thought we said I thought I mentioned
that I think the reason you're getting
trolled is because you're doing
something with your life and that
offends them and that they say that
people come to your stream in order to
make substantial positive changes in
their life and that's what I think
that's consistent with what Jordan
Peterson says because you guys are in
the search for meaning and they they've
had trouble finding meaning so anyone
who is building what they have looked
for and not found it really hurts them
it affects their ego yeah you said you
tell them the truth you don't want to
hear since your message is one of
empowerment of agency over your life
what invites the most hatred is meeting
the person that you want to be that's
good
yeah that's pretty cool that's that's a
that's pretty neat so you've been you've
been like moving forward with the whole
streaming thing in the week that we've
or two weeks or whatever that we've been
not yeah so I think we've been streaming
we've had a couple people on and it's
been fun I enjoy talking to people I had
my first like kind of challenging
interview because I think someone came
on stream and like didn't really know
why they wanted to come on stream or
didn't really know what was wrong
and so it was kind of like they were
being super vague and so it was really
challenging because I think that they
like sense that something was missing
further from their life but they didn't
know what it was or how to articulate it
does not usually take a really long time
in therapy to like build that up because
you have to understand that first you
have to understand why they're there or
they yes they are there so I mean we did
it in half an hour
[Music]
but but it was challenging I mean I
didn't know if we would you know if we'd
get there because it was it was tricky
but it's it's been fun to you know talk
to a lot of people and and see how
things are going good man and reaching
out to people hopefully helping some
people so as the majority of what you're
doing
still direct one-on-one type of therapy
basically and then using that as an
example for how other people can follow
it or are you doing more yes oh I think
I think so first of all to be clear it's
not therapy and I can't dispense medical
advice over the internet but so I think
what I do is just talk to people and so
usually my stream like I stream for like
two hours at a time and I may have like
a little intro where all I kind of talk
a little bit about what we've talked
about or if I just have thoughts that
I'd like to share with the universe and
then we usually do like an interview
that the last 45 minutes to an hour and
it'll be on different kinds of topics
and so it's just that that's based on
like what people you know want to talk
about so last last week we had someone
from rise above the disease or
disheartened disorder sorry
crystal Navarro yeah I know crystal so
crystals Jason crystal versus Jason dr.
Jason that was the guy that I want to
connect you with last week oh yeah yeah
yes there's him doc yeah so so it's
funny actually someone at the conference
that I was at I was at a conference this
morning and yeah a conference about like
technology in in in healthcare and
someone there also wanted me to connect
to me it wanted to connect me with with
Jason as well I could totally do I'm on
the board of rice gets this order
oh really yeah so it's a small work
world yeah or just a small group of
people that are interested in solving a
really big problem yeah
perfect yeah anyway so I so she was on
for about half an hour we talked about
that a little bit and then since she had
to go
we actually like switched gears and
someone came on and talked about he so
his question is why do I date people
that are like my parents oh that was fun
we talked about that for a little while
and then and then this other guy came on
so usually I'll like talk a little bit
we'll do like an interview for about 45
minutes and then we'll sort of do Q and
a afterward based on like stuff that
comes up in the interview so like do
other people feel like they you know
they date like do they find themselves
dating like the same kind of person over
and over and over again like why is that
and then yeah I mean so so that's
usually the format got it okay and so
you and I are doing something kind of a
little bit more
[Music]
I think since we're also like sort of
starting to commit to like more regular
talks which I am loved I love that idea
yeah that is amazing you're very good at
asking questions by the way oh really
thank you really yeah you are I have a
big reason for that I think as I prep a
lot like I spend a lot of time and also
another big reason for it is like I read
so many books and I've listened to so
many podcasts and I've like done so much
work on trying to understand
self-improvement that said now that I
finally have someone in front of me that
it can answer all those questions it's
like a genie that I could just like
continuously ask questions just pop
answers out of a freaking magic lantern
and I'm like this is amazing like this
is everything I've always wanted you
know so it's like really easy to do yeah
I think that's good questions you asked
questions that capture the nuance or
essence of things which is hard thank
you thank you so much that means a lot
it's really cool I think one of the
things that we could do is sort of build
a over over the course of time build a
foundation of understanding of some of
these like topics and the thing that I
want to nail you on most of all is some
kind of and we have to get into that
right now because I have a couple of
like interest stuff but like some kind
of
objective template for because here's
what I was thinking about between the
last time we talked and now and actually
before we well say that and then we
should probably reintroduce you the
people that are watching for the first
time they'll be a lot of those people so
there are going to be people who don't
absorb the full percentage of what you
say or even they're gonna give you like
a certain amount of time of day that's
like relevant to their attention span
and how unjust they are in the subject
so as much as possible we have to work
to try to distill into a template like
objectively if you were going to infer
self-improvement what are some of the
things that people can do and why and I
think once we sort of like build the
foundation of that understanding and and
like at a high level and a granular
level
it'll be really clear yeah I mean I
think that's that's you know that's a
big task so I think somewhere along the
way like whenever I teach about
meditation and stuff like that people
ask me like oh this is really helpful is
there a book we can read and then the
really disappointing thing is I say no
so there are a lot of books on a
meditation out there but I think the
real problem with a lot of dissemination
of information is that especially in the
meditative world is you have teachers
who learn from their teachers who learn
from their teachers who learned from a
master and so they start following a
script and then they start to lose how
that script was made right so it's like
it's like you're instead of
understanding like equals mc-squared
you're just like copying and pasting
like iterations of that formula instead
of understanding the basic elements that
allow you to develop a meditative
tradition and I don't what's so weird
about that is that I feel like
meditation is ace introspective practice
that I guess if you just do it will bear
fruit but you're saying it doesn't
unless it's technique based like if
someone just starts medicine like so
happens is people emphasize the
technique right so if you go to a
meditation like a particular tradition
of meditation they're gonna say like for
example if you go to a Zen meditation
they're gonna say this is the way to
meditate yeah and they don't really
acknowledge that they're like thousands
of ways to meditate say they say this is
our way but like the person who
developed a Zen is the one who truly
understood it yeah and so what's
happening is like everyone else is just
following a playbook but like in order
to really understand the stuff in order
to do what you're talking about you have
to be
able to make the playbook you have to be
able to create your own place because
that's when you truly understand the
pieces involved did you ever read
Siddhartha by Hermann Hesse yeah many
years ago yeah there's a there's a scene
in it where so in Sidharth this world
Buddha already exists so Siddhartha is
going through the world and meets the
Buddha as a separate person who's
already become enlightened yeah and he
says exactly that to the Buddha he says
this is assuredly the absolute best path
to reach enlightenment that can be
taught the problem is that because I'm
lacking that self element I can't follow
it you have to go find that answer for
myself yeah sorry I think that that's
the challenge right is like creating
you're asking - you're saying like how
do we distill what we're talking about
to be like a road that people can follow
and honestly like I think if you wanted
so I'm working on that it's funny I sat
down and I actually result of the
streaming a lot of stuff is colas for me
and I wrote like three pages about
anxiety and like it's sort of like
everything you need to understand about
anxiety just pulled out and boil down to
three pages and it's like where does
anxiety come from why do we have anxiety
what are the collective physiologic
anxiety versus cognitive anxiety how do
how does anxiety affect your mind in the
moment and where the roots of anxiety so
if you're thinking about tackling
anxiety you have to tackle the roots of
it and you have to tackle the actual
activity like in your thought process in
the moment and that division is very
fundamental and so I think you know
that's my goal - the other wild and
crazy thought that I had was that so
I've been thinking about distilling
stuff - and I was thinking about like
you know we do a lot on Twitch and we
like you know I think twitch chat
appreciates what we do and that's why we
do it right so that people can watch and
learn but ultimately there's a part of
me that says that you know you're never
gonna learn like what you want us to do
Devin is not gonna be possible through
twitch that's why we're syndicating it
to YouTube every every talk that we do
goes yeah you're right well and actually
this is a fundamental problem with this
platform that I've talked about to
twitch a lot right and I don't know how
you solve it is like how do you
how do you convey meaningful information
that sticks with people and live
somewhere in a wide format very hard
yeah so I had a crazy idea which is a
little bit tangential to what you're
saying I was think so we held our first
retreat like our healthy gaming retreat
in August and it was a lot of fun we
went out to Yosemite National Park
gamers from all over the country showed
up and and it was it was fun and it was
like we I think it was like Wednesday to
Sunday and I had this idea that I'm kind
of tempted to just like just tell the
internet and this is probably a terrible
idea but just tell people that I'm gonna
be somewhere for ten days and if you
guys want to learn stuff like
legitimately learn like show just show
up and whoever wants to show up can show
up and we're just gonna like work
through this stuff we're gonna teach you
how to meditate we're gonna teach you
about anxiety we're gonna teach you
about whatever you want to learn about
and let's like workshop like make a
retreat where people can just show up
and then we're gonna get through
whatever we want to get through and we
sort of good go ahead
say there's a really interesting idea
and that is that what if you use your
twitch as a lead generation in to those
kind of events that do have that impact
what is a lead generation what does that
mean it's a marketing term that means
there's a if you imagine a funnel okay
and at the top is a big circle and at
the bottom is a very small bigot right
at the at the top everything sort of
falls into it and it gets shot out the
the so the top of the funnel would be
the way that you put ingredients in so
if you're gonna pour water into the
funnel imagine water as people that need
help for example yeah right all kind of
go down in the funnel and they end up in
the place you want them to be so in this
case the the the lead generation of mean
bringing new people into the funnel from
one source so they can come out into
another source so they come in from the
they come in from twitch for example and
they come out the other end onto a
seminar or a retreat or something that
you want them yeah I mean I think that's
because I'm just recognizing the
shortcomings of like just not being able
to help everyone right so I think a lot
of people learn from interviews and like
oh like what we're gonna talk about
today and stuff but ultimately I think
the most transformative experiences of
my life have been kind of like in person
where you're kind of working with
someone intensely and and if people want
to you know I don't think I think
they're issues of like scalability and
stuff so I think the upside of something
like twitch is that you can reach way
more people like you know you can reach
hundreds of people or thousands of
people or tens of thousands of people at
a time which you really can't do in a
retreat but I mean I think this is a
crazy idea for a couple of reasons cuz
like it's not it's not gonna be planned
and like I don't know who's gonna show
up I don't know if someone's like you
know if they're gonna be hygiene issues
or like if people are gonna be
respectful of each other and and things
like that like that's all problems like
I was just thinking the other day so we
had a bedbug scare in our house where
there was like concerned that we had
bedbugs and I have younger kids and they
pick up bedbugs from all kinds of places
and so like I was just thinking like
what if one dude like one [ __ ]
Internet role shows up with bedbugs but
like lice and then like our we're gonna
have to like quarantine and everyone is
gonna leave on day two because we're in
with disease like there's like there's
gaming conventions of like a hundred
thousand people that go to like PAX West
or whatever and and have it had some
kind of epic pandemic beyond you know
the flu or whatever which is miraculous
it is yeah it makes you really think
about the sort of the sort of divine
wave that there must be to to make that
kind of stuff happen I can't believe
something hasn't happened to yeah some
mutated virus hasn't come out of a
gaming event and killed us all yeah yeah
in terms of in terms of twitch there's
an interesting thing about scale is that
you you always have to continuously do
things that get you the greatest
awareness possible because of the way
the scale works if you can make one
person's life or ten people's life fifty
percent better you can make a thousand
people's lives one percent better right
the the right answer I think is to do
both but twitch is one of those
platforms that you can really uniquely
do that because there's gonna be so many
people that don't even you don't even
ever meet by the way right because the
vast majority of people that are in your
chat we're not talking listening and and
those people will walk away with impact
that you may never hear about or months
later you'll get an email from somebody
that's like hey this small catalyst was
enough for me to change X well yeah
that's the reason you stay on twitch
right now
yeah it's funny I did a reddit AMA like
a year ago and I still get messages from
people from it so one reason for that
though is because reddit lives right so
that that AMA still exists yes somewhere
it actually found it I think when I was
looking for stuff for yeah yeah so like
the one problem with twitch is like once
that vaad goes there there isn't a no
dies yeah right yeah
so that's one of the reasons why I I
think it's really important to sort of
document your whole twitch journey by
editing every video and putting it
somewhere I think it's absolutely
imperative yeah I think so far we're
doing that so good all of the interviews
if you guys want it yeah so if you want
to see I think the first meme of our
channel was born on today's Friday on
Wednesday and it was with us guy who was
unclear whether he was like I think he
was you know I think he's just not from
the US so his pattern of speaking was a
little bit different but there was some
concern that he was a troll I think it's
just he was just speaking differently I
do wonder a little bit if honestly I
wonder if he was high but you know but I
think it's just it's a probably just a
foreign accent and maybe a dick thought
for me to have but yeah so I think where
we're trying to chop up videos and so
people can watch if there's like issues
that are relevant to them so we've
talked about self judgment we've talked
about we talked some about borderline
personality disorder we talked some
about you know how like what kind of
patterns we get into when we date people
we talked about feelings of inadequacy
and and kind of how to move forward so
all that stuff is sort of being collated
so I'm behind what you're saying man
excellent yeah I stayed here I got there
YouTube pulled up I'll link it in chat
to you guys should subscribe to this
there's a lot of so what are we talking
about today Devon well let's start off
with like
so people are know from your from the
title that your psychiatrist but can you
give like a short overview of who you
are so for people that are new sure so
um like 60 seconds Oh
however long you want yeah so ill
conveys the message sure so my name is
olive Kanodia I'm a psychiatrist I
practice in Boston Massachusetts my
practice is kind of has like two pieces
to it I spent several years studying to
become a monk before going to medical
school and that was actually I get
things I guess things start with me
almost failing out of college due to
being addicted to video games and just
playing too many video games all the
time which oddly enough is not something
I regret I actually had a lot of fun
those years and play just a bunch of
video games almost failed out and then
decided something needed to change so I
ended up going to India the summer after
my sophomore year and decided then to
become a monk and spent about seven
years coming back and forth between
India in the u.s. studying yoga and
meditation ended up meeting my wife and
so then that made the monk and celibacy
thing a little bit tricky and so also
she wanted to be married to a doctor so
I decided to go to medical school and
did did a few years of neuroscience
research studied medicine and then
ultimately became a psychiatrist trained
up here in Boston and now I'm I still
have a staff position at McLean Hospital
and I'm instructor in psychiatry at
Harvard Medical School which is where I
trained and most of what I do now in my
practice is actually like holistic
psychiatry so I incorporate meditation
Eastern medicine nutrition different
kinds of psychotherapy and I do a lot of
like performance enhancement sort of
psychotherapy so optimizing your
performance I work with a lot of
investment bankers entrepreneurs CEOs
NFL athletes and more recently eSports
athletes so that's that's been a lot of
funds and then on the other side I've
started working with gamers so half of
my time is spent just working with
people who are
I want to say to start off with like
addicted to video games but I think a
lot of times there are other issues at
play like issues of confidence or issues
of shame not understanding like what
emotions are going on like not
understanding their behaviors why is it
that they can't do anything besides play
video games in the central question that
I work with gamers on and this I think
is the biggest problem for gamers is
they're very analytically intelligent
and so they know what the right answer
is they just can't seem to do it
so what I really help gamers do is
bridge the gap between like being able
like is that the funny thing is most
people don't know what to do but gamers
know what to do they just can't bring
themselves to do it and that's a lot of
the work that I do now and that's
because at the end of the day you know
as much as I like I enjoy working with
my clients and like investment banking
and stuff I find that work engaging but
I actually don't care about Investment
Banking as a feel like I don't you know
I care about gamers and I like I'm a
gamer and I like gamers and I feel good
with gamers so that's who I am that's
what I do
um so for for me the idea of breaching
that gap what we started to talk about
last week um intense versus manifesting
action is the most interesting thing
because it is absolutely my biggest
problem for sure so I have a personal
connection to that I get I guess where
we could start is how much do we
understand right now about the brain and
the control we have over it because I
think when you look at neuroscience as a
field there's a lot of pop science I
think is what it's called
we're like people write these sort of
books about it and it's like a 200-page
thing that's like distilled from a
couple of studies and it ends up being a
New York Times bestseller that everyone
thinks that that's the way that you
think about things right yeah and then
there's other people that are trying to
get a little bit deeper into it like
Daniel Kaufman or Thinking Fast and Slow
but like I've I don't feel like
the I don't feel like people really
understand and I don't understand what
we actually know about how we can
control this thing
but because after a little bit of that
that's our mind because after a little
bit of like exportation of it I've just
realized how little I seem to have power
oh yeah so I think if you want to
understand your mind you have to take a
step back and in a weird way I think
you're looking for answers in the wrong
place okay
so let's remember that medicine is about
populations right so the field of
neuroscience tries to understand like
different parts of the brain and tries
to figure out okay the amygdala governs
our fear and survival response our
frontal lobes are the things that give
us impulse control and allow us to plan
and execute actions but what medicine is
focused on is not the individual it's
focused on like the common elements of
humans and I think the biggest challenge
that people face is if you're looking
for neuroscience to give you an answer
into like how you can be a more
productive human being I think you're
looking in the wrong place because
neuroscience is about averages medicine
is about averages so let me just give
you an example so do you know how we
came up with the 2,000 calories a day
FDA recommendation No
so in 1960 or 1950 there was something
called the Ann Haynes study where
basically like the Food and Drug
Administration or Department of Public
Health I don't know I think it was the
FDA sent out a survey to Americans and
said are you healthy and what do you eat
over the course of a week and then what
they did is they took all the people
that are healthy and they averaged what
they ate and they broke it down into
like calories carbs fat and protein and
they said okay this is our
recommendation in its 2,000 calories a
day
and so that's not based on any science
and it's not based on any individuality
it's just based on the average of what
people eat and so Natick all the people
that are healthy what does that mean so
like people who said I have no diseases
they took their answers and they
averaged them all together and that's
how they came up with it huh
subjectively yes okay
they just said like are you healthy like
you do you take any medication do you
have any diseases and people who said no
for both of those are the ones that they
took their answers and they average them
altogether and then we have a 2,000
calorie and a recommendation 50 years
later has there been silence since then
on that that people must have gone back
and looked at it and seen if there was
no or people just assume that that's the
answer that that's what we hear like
it's crazy
okay so like we know a lot so I can
study like in this is what you have to
understand is that medicine is about
averages so when they say that like the
amygdala governs a fear response the way
that they do that because this is the
way that medicine works right so they
take a they take 50 people and they scan
their brains and they say okay we're
gonna show 50 people like pictures of
zombies and we're gonna see how much
part of the brain lights up and for each
person their response to a zombie is
gonna be different but then what happens
is we drop we average all of their brain
scans and we say okay this is the part
that governs fear but what you have to
remember is that like each person is
like that's gonna apply poorly to any
individual person so any conclusion from
medicine is going to apply so from
scientific research is gonna apply to
very few people you get that no because
it seems to me that if you make a
conclusion based on the average response
to something then it would follow that
the average person would respond in that
way absolute not every single person is
but but but the highest count that we
can get beautiful Devin so let me ask
you something if you want to develop a
strategy so that your intentions become
manifestations do you want to develop
that strategy based on the average
person or based on you
ultimately it has to be on you but you
have to have some kind of observational
hypothesis first to be able to even have
an idea of how to do it absolutely I
completely agree with you so then the
question becomes where does your
observational hypothesis come from so
you can I would assume studies averages
things like that yeah so yeah
what would a yogi say
they would probably say to just go do it
yourself and figure it out right yep
yeah I think that's gonna be better all
right so I think you can use a lot of
neuroscience for sure I think you should
I mean like I'm I I've studied I mean
I'm a neuroscience researcher or not
anymore but I used to be and so I'm a
big fan of neuroscience I got really
excited about neuroscience I think it's
huge but I think if you're talking about
individual transformation you can read
as many studies as you want to on
neuroscience and like all of those
studies are gonna be about the average
person they're not going to be about you
so ultimately you can use that as a
starting point so like I'm not saying
you shouldn't use that information but
I'm saying if you're really thinking
about how to transform your life like
it's been my experience that you know
there's neuroscience
there's applied neuroscience there's
psychology and then there's like
psychotherapy like do you see that that
spectrum that we're moving from like
general knowledge to individual change
I do see that especially with the advent
of I think more Eastern practice in the
West the the problem with the totally
personal quest is that there is no
sounding board for it so what I mean by
that is there's no way for me
individually to tell how much control I
have over myself especially if I don't
yet have control over myself so the only
way for me to do that is to go to
studies or go to our understanding of
science to help buff at that does that
make sense no not at all
so okay let me challenge that so when
you say that there's no sounding board
like so what like so let's say that you
have an assumption that you have 50%
control over over yourself uh-huh and
then you go and you read a neuroscience
study about motivation like how is that
gonna help you figure out how much
control you have over yourself like how
is that an effective sounding board
because it's the only signing board
because I have no idea what my potential
is right so if I set if I set out to
complete ten things and then I complete
two things and then the next day I
complete four things the next day I
complete know things right I have no
idea what the hell is going on but if
there's a study that says on average
human beings do five things at there at
this level once they do these practices
I can use that as a sounding board to
self-improve right
I understand where your logic is I just
disagree with you because I think that
the problem here is that you're judging
yourself based on the average person and
like that's not a good way to judge
yourself but my argument would be there
is no other way to judge yourself
oh sure there is you can just judge
yourself purely subjectively right so
it's not so like do you stop at five
because that's the average do you stop
at six because that's the average you're
above average
you would you would stop when you got to
your point but mmm okay here this might
be a better way to say it okay um let's
take something that's like more that
that's like less subjective like mine
stuff let's take something like physical
okay so we know that after like a
certain a certain amount of
cardiovascular training a human being
can run a mile and a certain number of
minutes right
okay helps to know that because if you
are doing something like an army PT test
where you where you need to create an
average of people to perform at a
fitness level that you know to
accomplish certain tasks right then what
you do is you set up a series of studies
that determine what that level of
fitness is and then you apply that
across an average population so maybe
the best example to use when we're
talking about averages is the army right
we're yeah
so come I completely agree but let's so
now you're talking about a different
thing because you're talking about a
standard for a population and I think is
what medicine is yeah so I think if you
want to use a populace oh if I like
let's talk about like how you become
licensed to be a doctor so I have my own
individual barometer of like my
understanding of medicine okay and I
don't think it matters how much more or
less I know about medicine than the
average person like the important thing
to me is whether I'm satisfied with my
knowledge and whether my knowledge is
sufficient to help the people that I
want to help
oh now that's a personal journey now if
I want to be a practicing physician I
sure as well sure as hell want to know
what I need to get on the licensing
exams to get a license Yeah right so I
agree with you there that if you're
talking about but in that moment I'm not
like an individual I'm someone who's
trying to be to hit a certain benchmark
to become part of a population does that
make sense it makes it makes sense so
but my question would be can you imagine
a world where science actually goes into
the mind enough that it disproves a
concept like willpower for example
I mean I think if science disproves
willpower that's fine I think that the
challenge is that that doesn't help the
individual so well understand do you
think that understanding our limits
helps well understand our limits our
understanding what are what are and are
not our limits would help an individual
on their personal quest as to what would
towards what we're talking about so our
understanding are limits on a personal
level or on a scientific level on a
scientific level
I mean I think it helps so I think this
this is where it kind of comes back to
what you're saying about kind of
hypothesis generation so I think science
is useful in terms of helping us sort of
like start the process of self
exploration okay right so I think sign
up so like it's useful to know for
example from science I think this is but
ultimately it comes down to the
individual I think it's useful to know
for example that our frontal lobes and
our amygdala have a reciprocal
inhibition so that mean
so the frontal lobe is the part of our
brain that allows us to do the things
that we should do it allows things like
impulse control it allows things like
delaying gratification okay and then we
also know that that the frontal lobe
does a good job of shutting off our
amygdala which is in our limbic system
which is kind of our centers of negative
emotion we also know that our amygdala
and limbic system our centers of emotion
shut down the frontal lobe so I think
it's a useful mechanism to understand
that like when I get emotional my
ability to delay gratification and
control my impulses goes down mm-hmm and
it's also important to know that if i
strengthen my frontal lobe the better I
get at delaying gratification the less
power emotions will have over me
there's a reciprocal inhibition so both
of them sure each one has the ability to
shut off the other but I think in a
simple way like you can study science to
arrive at that conclusion and then I can
just ask you the simple question Devin
when you're pissed off do you make good
decisions or bad decisions yeah
typically bad right and like ultimately
like we needed a thousand studies to
teach us that lesson
well you might have needed a thousand
someone probably needed a thousand hours
of meditation to ask that question
absolutely right so I think that that in
my experience so what I find is actually
one of the biggest things that and maybe
I have a bias because of the people that
I work with I work with people who are
highly motivated and highly successful
and one of the biggest problems that
they have in terms of finding peace or
happiness and this is true of gamers too
is that they enter a comparative mindset
yeah and the big problem that I have
with the spirit of what you're saying
like I don't think we should abandon
neuroscience like I use it a lot I use
it every day
the problem is that when you set your
standard when you assume a standard that
is external or comparative because if if
you set a standard and you say most
people are able to achieve five tasks a
day and you're able to achieve - like
how does that help you today all it
tells you is that you're doing a shitty
job like that doesn't actually like
that's all it tells me but if it tells
you that you can do that then it could
give you the impetus to improve I agree
but I think that in a weird way I'm not
sure that you can do that right because
in this moment I don't know that it's
actually possible for you to do five
tasks right like I think you have to
focus on doing two tasks tomorrow so I
think that the problem with setting an
external standard for yourself is that I
mean let's just think about it this way
so you know I look around and I see that
all my friends are I'm just thinking
about myself like back in high school I
look around at all my friends and and
see that like they have girlfriends and
I don't and so I know it's theoretically
possible for me to have a girlfriend and
I can try to work at it but in a weird
way like the way that I ended up getting
actually getting a girlfriend is has
nothing to do with striving to get a
girlfriend which doesn't mean that there
isn't positive stuff that can come out
of like striving to get a girlfriend but
I would argue that it's actually like
damaging to strive for that and most of
the people that I work with I'd say that
if you want a girlfriend actually don't
try to get a girlfriend just focus on
yourself and become a better person and
you'll become like more attractive to
other people and oftentimes as they make
a comparison to other
they're looking for something that
someone else has which in turn blinds
them to what they actually would benefit
from so it's damaging to strive for it
because you're going after the wrong
reasons for pursuing it versus it's an X
whenever you go after something what
you're saying is when you go after
something that is externally driven
you're not gonna get a response that's
authentic to yourself absolutely if
we're talking if your main question is
how does intention how can if I want to
do something and I want to make that a
reality I think the more that you focus
on yourself and the less you use an
external standard the better you're
gonna be at being able to do that
so we talk about jobs we talk about
careers but we don't talk about callings
and I think that's a big problem
you tell me
talk about jobs and we talk about
careers but we don't talk about calling
I would say that maybe a calling in the
way that you're describing it is Devin
why do you stream it why do I stream
yeah to make the greatest amount of
positive impact on people is that a job
I'm a weird case cuz I don't need to do
it cuz I do another job but most people
probably stream to make money or like as
a job yeah I don't do that as a job okay
so so yeah so case in point right so
like that's something like do you do you
when you stream how do you feel about
yourself usually pretty bad okay
streaming is extremely difficult it's
really negative most of the time and it
requires like really long hours and
there's just a lot of negativity on the
internet that gets to me okay
yeah so I sort of actually broadcast in
spite of that and and I know like the
maybe the typical answer is supposed to
be like oh like I feel so great I feel
like I'm achieving my calling and stuff
it's more like an obligation of
something that I feel like I should do
because I'm providing value which is
just like I have to sit so beautiful
it's not the wrong answer Devin it's the
right answer it's the best answer so now
this is very very important to
understand most human beings when they
have an intention what gets in the way
is the negative feelings or negative
outcomes you get that yeah and somehow
you are able to do something in spite of
those negative feelings or negative
outcomes you have somehow stumbled upon
the silver bullet which is to do
something even though it hurts
yeah but I feel like that this creates
over a perpetually sucks that we need to
work on yeah so we can work on that so
that's it sounds like that's what we're
talking about today but but I just want
you to like legit spas and think about
this for a second you're able to like
enter this shitstorm of streaming on a
daily basis
and there's a part of you that hates
doing it and yet if we think about what
are the things that get in the way from
intention to manifestation isn't it the
bad stuff like if becoming a millionaire
was like involved eating burritos every
day like people could do it like you
could give gaming and like eating sushi
and traveling the world was what was
necessary to become a millionaire
everyone could do it
the reason that becoming a millionaire
is hard is because you have to do things
that you don't like to do in what I hear
from you is that you're able to do
things that are actually painful and
difficult for you but somehow you find
the strength to get up every day and do
it yeah eventually never one time but
yeah that's that's fine yeah right so
let's just think about this for a second
if we have a life where we're no longer
restricted by pain suffering and
negative emotions and negative feedback
and we can do things in spite of that
like imagine how much control you have
over your life
I doesn't make sense to me if we live
the life without negative new notions we
have a lot of control so sorry
no no not without if we lived a life
where negative negative experiences did
not prevent us from doing the things
that we want to do did not prevent us
from doing them yeah how much freedom do
you have in life I would assume a lot
assuming that's the assuming that's the
actual barrier but I'm not sure it is
okay I think many people it's it's one
big one right because generally speaking
people don't do things because they're
hard they do things that are easy like
why do people play video games because
it's [ __ ] easy
yeah but don't you think there's do you
think that there's also sort of a
societal or cultural aspect of this
where we have sort of pushed the tasks
so like once you get into doing things
like pay-per-click advertising for
example and you're like it's not like
really technical work and it's actually
pretty fun it's almost like a game in of
itself to figure out like these
demographics in like these audiences
it's actually really similar to gaming
it's kind of weird how that it's a
parallel but we've sort of as a society
push these topics over here and said
these are not fun and now everyone sort
of grown up knowing that how much of it
do you think like in terms of
distribution of these tasks is actually
stuff that human beings don't want to do
or just think they think they don't want
I don't understand your question it's
important because
what's these the millionaire burrito
example that you had so so you said if
being a millionaire was easy and
everyone just had to eat burritos to do
it they would do it but but what if
society as a whole
just like believed that burrito eating
was really difficult not fun and
disgusting okay like what I'm saying is
this is a really hard concept as much
for me to get this right but
the tasks that move people to the top of
hierarchies they be cut they are
difficult and uncommon
by virtue of a sort of cultural
significance around that thing right
like like there's people say building a
business is difficult but we don't know
that building a business is actually
that difficult but there's been a lot of
like societal stigma around it and now
the perception is the difficult so many
people don't even try yeah so let me see
if I understand you so how much of how
much of our perception see your so my
okay let's just track back exactly how
much of a section is social barriers
psychologically I am making a claim that
if you are no longer controlled by your
negative experiences you have freedom in
life and what you intend will become
real that is the claim you're making and
you are saying but how much of so that
involves like freedom from negative
experience but your responses how much
of our definition of negative experience
is determined by society and may be
false right which matters because even
if you get rid of the negative
experience you still have that barrier
after that if that's true I yeah so now
we come back to what I was saying
earlier which is this is why you should
not look externally for a comparison bar
all right so then let's go back to that
question should say let's assume that
what let's assume that's right and that
we can't look externally
where do we look and I know the answer
isn't obviously into the self because
that doesn't mean anything
no no I know so so I think I think we
look at so what we're what we're
highlighting now is the difference
between a job in a calling okay
like a job is what society tells you to
do in order to be successful insecure a
calling is something that like you you
feel like is a duty or a responsibility
last time we talked about Dharma you
remember that and you said that like
you're the reason that you stream is
because you feel like it's an obligation
yeah
do to your responsibility yeah so you do
this because you see that something is
wrong in the world and that you feel
like you have the capacity to try to fix
it exactly and that's where you get the
strength to deal with trolls the
negative emotions that whatever makes it
difficult for you to stream yes and you
also say that the you know some people
make premises like Oh starting a
business is hard whereas what you're
telling me is that you actually really
enjoy doing things that other people
find to be boring or difficult and you
thrive off of that absolutely and so I
think what you're doing is exactly what
I'm advocating which is stop looking at
what other people are doing and start to
think a little bit about what is it that
you enjoy what is it that you want to do
what is the change that you want to see
in the world and then like take a stab
at it I mean this is a fancy way of
saying look in the self but I think
looking in the self is very difficult
and it's like kind of directionless
something that yoga hip you say like oh
so let's be scientists about it so what
does that actually mean it means like
thinking about what are the things so
this is I think if you want a concrete
task so here's one what are the things
that you can do despite them being
difficult that you like oddly enough
other people are bitching and moaning
about but you're actually completely
fine doing
meditating going to exercise like yoga
or things like that reading books these
are things that come pretty easy to me
personally that are often like difficult
things for other people yeah so I think
when when for your for your listeners
and my listeners and all of the
listeners and everyone who's watching
vods you know I think that's a question
that they should ask themselves so
looking into yourself is a systematic
process that involves a lot of different
dimensions and one is like what are the
things that are hard objectively right
that the standard people say are
difficult but that I actually enjoy
doing so what are things that come easy
to me that seem hard for other people
yeah yeah and I think if you capitalize
on that if you understand that if you
try to build a life based on that then
you're not going to be like even though
things are objectively hard they're not
going to be like you're gonna be able to
do it you're going to be able to succeed
and would that did an amazing thing he
recognized that look look means
suffering is different from pain he said
there are two layers of human-like
experience there's emotions which is
like happiness sadness pain grief shame
and then there's this other layer which
is peace or suffering so like for
example eight years ago my dad passed
away and it was really like awesome
experience for me in a weird way because
I felt a lot of negative emotion and I
was a piece it's a really bizarre thing
because we tend to associate negative
emotion with a lack of peace but you can
actually attain a state where there's a
part of me that sort of recognized and I
think people who have lost especially
parents you know will get to this point
hopefully at one point where you sort of
accept it like yeah you missed them but
you're also at peace with it and you can
like you can sleep easy at night because
they lived a happy life and they
provided for you and you guys had like a
valuable relationship and it meant a lot
to you but now they're gone and that's
okay right that's peace and you can have
grief and peace at the same time
the the Buddha described dukkha I
believe as a sort of sense of
uncomfortableness right a sort of a sort
of sense of just like things lot of
people mistranslated as suffering right
but it's actually just a sense of
not being comfortable with the state of
things
it's that way we think of suffering is
like okay you're really cold or or your
or you're starving but it's not that
it's it's right it's the sense of
unfulfilled meant yeah so I think that's
one source of new care but I think
you're so I think suffering I think is
actually a pretty good translation I
mean this is why I think ultimately we
have to use sunscreen because but but
what would that would say I think the
reason that we get you say it's quote
unquote mistranslated is because people
equate suffering to physical or
emotional pain that's what I mean yeah
but it's that's the whole point I'm
saying is that suffering in the way that
would that talks about it is independent
of those things yeah okay
so my first clinical experience teaching
meditation was teaching meditation to
cancer patients and cancer patients have
really bad pain and we were doing a
study where we wanted to teach cancer
patients pain and we wanted to say okay
this like this is gonna improve their
pain so we give them a questionnaire and
we say like okay how bad is your pain
today and they scale up from one to ten
and so most people will say like nine
because our studies criteria was people
who are very sick and then they take
that survey every day for a week and
they say it's basically nine every day
then we teach a meditation for a month
or two months and then we ask him okay
now let's ask you what your pain is and
guess what their number is
uh I actually the resume is lower isn't
it it's like 20% lower it's 9 it's still
9 it's still mine so then I scratch our
heads we start scratching our heads and
we're like hmm so like did we not do
this right and we start talking to
people maybe our study didn't succeed
and then when I talk to people like
there was one woman who like blew my
mind she said no I think I loved it I'm
glad you guys taught me this I find it
incredibly helpful and that I'm kind of
scratching my head I'm like but if it's
you're saying it's incredibly helpful
but you're still in a lot of pain like
how does that work
and she says what after learning how to
meditate I can put a window between me
and the pain so the pin is still there
actual pain it reduces your response to
it absolutely yeah so she's more at
peace she feels more content now this is
the interesting thing
her pain score is still a 9 what do you
think happens to the amount of pain
medication she uses does it lower
absolutely really to the tune of 363
dollars a day oh my god what because her
ability to change her response to that
pain is that significant absolutely do
any of the mental factors around stress
or anything to increase as a result of
that well I don't understand the
question ok so if you're if you're
assuming that you have less pain
medication and more pain
wouldwould any kind of like stress
increase or bad mental states increase
as a result of that not having pain
medication yeah cuz she's renewing her
pain medication yes on the contrary so
it's it's because her stress level is
better that she can tolerate higher
levels of pain in her overall mental
state is actually way better because
she's not like hopped up on pain meds so
she's not like slipping in and out of
consciousness because she's like got a
bunch of narcotics I don't know why
someone's buzzing hold on yeah sure
what's up here
[Music]
give me just one second
that's a good chance to the bathroom
quick hopefully he'll figure that
you
[Music]
all righty
hey Tom how are you
[Music]
yeah you scared me straight man it's
really frightening actually what trolls
can do it's like crazy I didn't realize
that they would go that far
[Music]
so just a while where while we have a
little bit of a break do you guys have a
sense of what what do you guys is there
something in particular that you want to
talk about today
[Music]
you
hello Kate
[Music]
okay so say your wife yeah hello it's
nice to meet you yes it is hello yeah
talking right now okay so we continuing
with just yes yeah okay let's do it so
we we last left off with your study yeah
yeah
okay so you've given these you've given
these patients a meditation practice
their pain is still the same their
response to the pain is lesson and also
their stress levels of losses yeah and
you equate that reduction of stress
- the reason why their response to pain
is better um so I mean I don't like the
word stress because I don't know exactly
what you mean by that
but huh so if we look at it so what it
is is their ability to tolerate so let
me put it this way their ability to
tolerate higher levels of pain improves
so their discomfort from the pain is
better
okay
this come from the paper okay so so so
this goes back to what we were talking
about which is the separation of
physical and emotional pain from what
suffering actually is yeah alright and
that's important because when we go
pursue this self-improvement in
ourselves that's a critical thing we
need to know well I mean I think it's
just important to understand that like
so a lot of people live like the puppet
in their life is their negative
experience I'm sorry the puppet master
in their life like their puppets and
they're controlled by their negative
experiences right so like a sensitivity
to find like when you say negative
experience do you mean past do you mean
so I'll give you it so like let's say
that I'm I'm in class and I have
something that I think would be a
valuable point to make but I'm afraid of
how I'm gonna sound because I'm like
self-conscious about my voice so I'm
embarrassed by it and so then I don't
speak
right so if we keep a so in that way
it's controlled your action yeah so like
anxiety controls people's lives
and so if you want to overcome anxiety
like there are a lot of different ways
to do it but if we're talking about like
you know what like what I want to do
something in life like what gets in the
way so I think anxiety is a great
example of some kind of emotion or some
kind of internal experience or some kind
of like suffering that prevents me from
doing the thing that I want to do if I
really like a girl and I want to ask her
out but I'm afraid she's gonna say no
and I never end up asking her and then I
regret it for years like what is the
thing that kept me from doing the thing
that I like I really wanted to do it's a
fear of rejection
right it's the lack of self-confidence
and so why does the sorry yeah go for it
why does that just makes no sense to me
why does the brain do this where it'll
it'll offer you like an initial fear of
rejection and let's put on a scale of 1
to 100 that's like a 1 in a negative
experience but the [ __ ] experience of
40 years of regret of not asking that
girl out is like so much infinitely
worse what why does the brain preload
you why do we preload ourselves better
question to that narrative well yes
whereas the cost versus benefit in that
like so I think there are a lot of
things that the brain does that seem
like their mistakes to us but we have to
understand that the brain is not stupid
the brain is just operating under a
different set of like values so the
brains priorities which is different
from what we want them to be
okay right so like this is where so so
for example this is something that I was
explaining to people earlier anxiety is
not real I mean it's an illness but when
I really stop and think about it what I
realized one day is that anxiety is a
learned behavior
so like anxiety is not like sure it
causes people a lot of suffering but
anxiety is generally speaking something
that people learn at some point that's a
protective mechanism so if you have a
kid who gets bullied in school they
learn early on that like if I like when
their so when you have like a six year
old who's getting bullied there's a part
of their brain so I want you to just
envision this scenario so there's a
there's a kid on the playground he's six
years old and he's being made fun of by
like half a dozen kids and the kids are
sort of in a semicircle or even like
full circle and he's been being
surrounded yeah and they're making fun
of him right so that's something that I
definitely experienced when I was a kid
I think a lot of gamers go through
something like that what do you think is
happening what is what is that person's
brain teaching them in that moment
that any kind of self expressions he'll
lead to this kind of scenario is bad
sure yeah and then let's say 15 minutes
the bullies get bored and they move on
and then how does the how does the kid
feel
horrible right like I never wanted to do
that again I never want to do that again
but they also feel relief
oh now that it's over now that it's over
right and so the brain teaches them
something very simple which is that when
they're there a bunch of people looking
at me I'm in danger
do you see that
yeah the one of the one of the ways I
heard this said was in reference to
agoraphobia so the example was like
somebody has like a a bad feeling or
something bad happens in like a public
place like a mall and now the mall then
becomes the associate and then they go
home and they feel better
so the mall becomes that place of like
negativity they never go back there the
home is the place that's secure right
that's another thing same yeah okay so
do you want to just tell people what a
agoraphobia is the fear of like public
places are like social events or things
like absolutely mmm-hmm so what happens
is like then so the brain from a very
primitive point like like early on in
development right when like all the
play-doh is still soft before it starts
to like harden and we like so a lot of
stuff that happens very early on is very
impactful for our programming for the
rest of life like things like learning
how to walk in the capacity to learn
language so our brain is really laying
down very very important foundation when
we're young and so in this kid is very
young he learns a very simple thing
which is that when I'm being looked at
I'm in danger and as long as no one sees
me I'm fine and so the next day he goes
to school and I mean if this is this is
what happened to me is like I was smart
right so like I knew the right answer
and the teacher would call on me
everyone's looking at me and I'd give
the right answer what do you think would
happen at recess after I gave the right
answer what people I should make funny
oh yeah because the stupid kids who were
larger than I was didn't know the right
answer so they'd call me smartypants or
teachers Pat or whatever and and so then
like then my my brain is learning even
more it's like okay if I open my mouth
even in a relatively safe place like I'm
gonna pay for it later yeah so then what
happens is I end up with something
called social anxiety which is that like
I can be out at a restaurant with people
that I don't know and even though no one
no one has bullied me for years
that programming has gotten laid down
that like when everyone is looking for
me like I'm in danger and if you ask
someone about social anxiety they'll
tell you they're like I know these
thoughts are crazy but when I'm at a
dinner table with six people that I've
never met and I opened my mouth my heart
starts racing
that's a danger response that's a
physiologic response they can't help
themselves that's their brain
quote-unquote doing that to them and
this is where we kind of say like why
does the brain do stupid [ __ ] to us and
it's because that's just what the brain
knows how to do like it just it doesn't
understand it's trying to protect you so
this is something go ahead well I have a
really important distinction that's
gonna be a thick a super hard answer but
when you say this leads back to the
brain's priorities are different from
what we want them to be
who's we
because if the if this is all made up
into the brain
were some outside force that's opposing
this obviously since we have the
consciousness to do so right like
there's one part of you the saying I
don't want to be socially anxious
there's another part that is it seems
almost coded in it's absolutely coded so
so so I guess like the example of like
an actual ice person maybe they might
actually have that response of a dinner
table but then the awareness comes in
they say okay here's this response I'm
going anyway right what is creating that
opposition yeah so this is where okay so
like it's a good question so yeah yeah
I'm gonna I'm gonna there's like a more
scientific answer and there's a less
scientific answer so the more scientific
answer is something that people call the
observing self so there's a part of you
that is able to in a detached way like
notice things about yourself and like
observe things kind of objectively so
this is the part of you that allows you
to reflect on your thought process so
the observer and the observed are two
different things
and if we think about it like sometimes
you're caught up in your thoughts like
this may sound weird but sometimes
you're caught up in your thoughts in
your thinking and you're kind of not
really aware of what you're thinking
you're just lost in the thinking yes
right now and then there are other times
where you can actually notice your
thought so there's something outside of
your thinking mind that is noticing what
the thoughts are and you may have that
that may cause thoughts to arise but
there's some amount of like self
reflective capacity okay so this is in
in in psychology or neuroscience or
whatever people sort of talk about this
thing called the observing self now on a
far deeper level like so people have
just made the observation that oh I have
the capacity to like understand
something about what I do what I do yeah
or what I find with the Yogi's actually
they went someone put so they went one
step further and they actually tunneled
down and explored the depth of the mind
and what they realized is there is some
part of us that they call the othman
which is more loosely translated as soul
self yeah or consciousness
and the consciousness is separate from
the mind the mind is a thinking machine
but that consciousness is separate and
that the purest form of consciousness is
like something that's divine and when
you when we like become pure
consciousness then we're enlightened
when your comment kind of completely
free from the mind and there's so this
may be kind of a weird thing that people
have trouble understanding so we can go
through a quick exercise where I can
kind of lay it out for you sure yeah so
people tend to think first of all that
consciousness and mind are the same
thing so let's understand the different
states of mind and being that we all
experience and see how consciousness and
mind are acts actually separate mm-hmm
so the first thing is what are we do it
like so right now Devon is your
consciousness active yes or no
yes yes it is your mind active yes okay
so the other way to put this is are you
aware
yes or no I am these are really
difficult words because they could mean
a water no just just answer the question
simply are you aware that Devon I think
so yeah the answer is yes don't worry we
got a step away from [ __ ] philosophy
okay like that's a weird [ __ ] yeah all
of that stuff so Yogi's didn't care
about like all like are we in the matrix
and they're not in the mail like just
forget just like are you aware right now
like yeah you're aware yeah I'm aware of
us and are you having thoughts I am okay
so now let's think about what is the
state of mind where we don't have
consciousness and we have no thoughts
what does the state of mind where we do
what we do have consciousness so so
first actually we take a step back so
your state of mind right now we're gonna
call wakefulness okay okay this is
wakefulness so what state of mind has no
consciousness and no thoughts sleep
absolutely easy right no consciousness
no thoughts now what is the State of
Mind of dreaming what
are they fine huh do we know that yes do
you have thoughts yes or no in dreaming
this is really hard man like notes is a
dream considered a thought what do you
think I don't think so
so do you have thoughts when you dream
you can think Walter I mean yes so the
mind is active in area right yeah are
you conscious in a dream
sometimes but not always not usually
yeah not usually right so now we have
and then we also have something called a
daydream why do we call it a daydream
what is their playing are you aware in a
day train awake
not usually absolutely yeah do you have
thoughts in a daydream yes absolutely
right so now we have when when caught in
consciousness consciousness plus
thinking is wakefulness no consciousness
no thinking is sleep and then we [ __ ]
human beings we understand this stuff so
well that we came up with a word that
describes the other and then we are
dreaming which is no consciousness with
thoughts and then we have daydreaming
which is no consciousness with thoughts
so do you see that like even between
sleep and wake we have found a common
state of mind and we use the same word
to describe it daydream versus dream yes
because human beings intuitively
understand that I'm lost in my thoughts
and I'm kind of not aware of what's
going on yes they do in Sedona so now so
now we're filling out a two-by-two table
right you got that up yeah I do
and so then now the question becomes
what is consciousness without thought
it's meditation absolutely yeah their
nests yeah so when people ask me what is
meditation that's it that is meditation
super cool okay I totally get that
meditations consciousness without
thought yep now you've heard that phrase
a thousand times before
but like not in context but we don't
understand like we don't like we don't
explain what that means and it's
actually like it's mind-blowing ly
simple yeah it is you can teach this
stuff you can ask a six-year-old these
questions and they'll give you the right
answers the six-year-old will give me
more confident answers than you will
because you [ __ ] read too many books
that's sure that's the whole Zen
practice of yes and you know what
happens with so now Devin we're gonna
come full circle so what's what's the
difference between a six-year-old
answering these questions and you I've
read too many books yeah so what is that
that's relying on an external standard
wait way run that by me again how do you
mean so you remember how we were talking
about like using science as a Berlocq is
a comparison like using an objective
standard you've read so many books that
you have all these objective standards
that are actually interfering with what
you actually know
I have objective standards that are
interfering with what I actually know
yeah right because you've you've spent
so much time studying science and
studying things outside of yourself that
they're now interfering with your
ability to even tell what's going on
within you
I am losing you at your connection now
losing like you're losing it no no
internet yeah like physically yeah give
it just a sec okay no yeah I think we
decided so can you repeat what USA yeah
so like the difference between the
six-year-old and you is like remember
how you were saying how do you know what
to what standard to set yourself against
unless you look at something objective
and external right you were saying like
how do you know like how what you should
strive for unless you look outside so
the difference between you and the
six-year-old is you've read a bunch of
books yeah so you have a lot of external
standards in your mind that are actually
you have to like dismantle to get to
your actual experience like when I asked
you are you aware a six-year-old is
gonna say yeah whereas you're like well
what is awareness like yeah are we and
you guys I'm saying I basically [ __ ]
up my whole life because I read some of
it herself in from in books and now I
have to work through all that [ __ ]
because I like to get back to where I
started
yes right and tonight so so Devin Devin
now you understand now so now you're
ready to understand what Leonardo da
Vinci said if it took my entire life to
paint like a child
it took me my entire life to paint like
a child now you get it
that's what he was saying
and I you cut out with us who's saying
Leonardo da Vinci
that's what he said yeah
so
okay okay but all those presupposes that
you have all the answers inside you like
where does that where do we where do we
come to with that that that seems like a
weird like me me like yogi thing right
like um so are you saying that there
literally is no value in external no no
I think there's there's a max value in
external stuff there's some ends value
it's just that what's the dicot I don't
understand like what's the dichotomy cuz
like it's like on one hand I have to
forget every Tony Robbins speech I've
ever heard to become enlightened right
like but on the other hand I have to
like like there's some value in it so
I'm gonna share a story with you okay so
like this is where like I can we can I
can try to explain it a couple ways I'm
just gonna share a story to see if this
resonates so if you ever heard of the
story of how would that became
enlightened oh yeah
what's your understanding of the story
well it's a really long so okay okay I
understand sorry let me just tell my
version okay okay she was doing a lot of
strict asceticism so he had started with
a lot of teachers and he was like doing
the really hardcore meditation stuff
because he wanted to be enlightened he's
like I'm gonna starve myself so he did a
lot of intense fasting he was a schemata
like he would live in the forest with
the one so he was like he was he was
like gray and on the brink of death and
had like it thought like okay like it's
not enough I'm not enlightened yet so
I'm gonna go further I'm gonna go
further I'm hardcore this is what all
the texts and all the external people
say that I should do and I know that
even like people haven't gotten
enlightened this way so I'm gonna do it
he's doing it he's doing it he's on the
brink of death he's emaciated he's like
all skin and bones and this young girl
walks by I kind of envisioned her as a 9
year old girl and she's got a pail of
rice pudding and she sees this dude
who's clearly like an ascetic and she
kind of says she's like she also sees
that he's like he was not like really
looking great like he looks sick he's
paying he's thin and she's like hey man
do you want some rice pudding and then
rice pudding is like you know it's it's
it's dense it's delicious its creamy its
sweet it's a dessert and like hear
Buddha is like he's not even eating like
crusts of bread he's like depriving
himself of water he like looks at her
and he's like you know what yes I do and
then he eats the rice pudding and he's
like you know what this [ __ ] is [ __ ]
delicious and then he's like why the
hell if I've been doing this this whole
time he's like how can something so
simple and so pure that I enjoy so much
like how can the road to enlightenment
like mean avoiding this or giving this
up and then in that moment he says [ __ ]
it this is all stupid
all of this strict asceticism everything
that I've done it just doesn't work it's
stupid there's just no way to become
enlightened it's all false and then he's
like it's I'm just gonna like that's it
I'm done and then he goes in you again
you know I'll [ __ ] I'm hitting the
climax can you hear me I've totally lost
him now oh I see you Oh God
I think my zone that money gone out
twice
there
okay Oh God let me try to change this
server of the call cuz like my internet
seems to be okay I don't know why yours
is yeah is mice let me see if my stream
is my stream is fine it's probably
discord hold on hold on hold on tom is
saying hit a ctrl shift escape
people are saying this Court does this a
lot it does yeah yeah my CPUs like at
20% I don't think it's my CPU
I'll leave it open we'll just click an
eye on it can you chat can you change
the can you change the server of a
discord call was that actually pause I
don't know when people are saying such
spiritual conversation that the
bandwidth can't handle its share yeah
top right okay oh you can this is why ya
hang up he's gotta toss ourselves on to
a better server thank you but if the
conversations going into another
dimension so alright okay better well
this should hopefully be better and if
it's not what changed alright okay so
the buddha has rice pudding and he goes
why hell have I ever why was I yeah this
is stupid like like I've deprived myself
of all the stuff this is such a pure and
simple joy like all these people are
idiots I've tried it it doesn't work he
says [ __ ] it and then he goes in sits
under a people tree and gets enlightened
forty days later yeah right like huh no
he goes assistant or poetry and it takes
from 40 days I don't know well I thought
he I thought he didn't eat also during
that I don't know okay okay so the point
being that there is actually an answer
to why he didn't have the rice pudding
right it's that that separation from
that desire was what was supposed to
spark that enlightenment in the first
place
I'm sorry can you say that again yeah
this is so the whole reason he's set out
to do all the stuff that Ramana does
which is like basically try to destroy
themselves is to get away from desire to
get away from that attachment so that
you reach a point where you're not
dependent on those things and you're
free from them that was the whole point
of going through all that suffering that
was the whole point and then though he's
real oh [ __ ] I'm cutting out now and
what he realizes is that I wonder if I
should just bump up my internet
connection
we're on Central rose again - yeah we'll
try to track you're on the west coast I
am yeah
but add you on East and that was working
out okay
we'll try that that might be better for
you yeah okay thank you yeah so I think
that yes so that that's the the crazy
thing about enlightenment is that like
you know you conquer all of the desires
except for the desire of enlightenment
and it's the desire for enlightenment
that causes you to get rid of everything
else but ultimately that's a desire that
has to be given up to
I say mmm and that's what he's holding
bud the back was that he's still desired
to become enlightened yeah
so when he says [ __ ] it I'm done that's
when it happens but that's because he
already did all the other work hasn't it
technically if you really look at sand
traditions no so remember that
enlightenment enlightenment is binary
it's not yeah it's on our honor ophea
right so what you did before that moment
it's not like he got 50% of the way
there so that yeah that's why like when
you look at Zen masters like you know
what they do when they become
enlightened what they laugh because they
realize the futility of everything
they've been doing
I see
yeah Alan Watts has a really good
segment on this where he talks about
exactly this that like you there's a way
that zine masters trick their students
right they have a they have a sort of in
the beginning like you go in and you say
I really want to learn how to become
enlightened you can teach me
and then the Zen master says no I can't
teach you I have nothing to teach you
and the student says no I know that you
have something to teach me because there
are all these people hanging around and
they are trying to learn from you and
the master goes no I didn't ask them to
be here they're just hanging out and I
can't get him to leave and and and like
the master kind of convinces you that
there really is nothing to teach you
that is the answer but that doesn't
become self apparent until you spend
years in the ashram because you haven't
actually internalized that you finally
reach the end of it and you get there
and you're like oh my god that old
bastard was right there really was
nothing for me to know yeah and so now
Devan we come back to you my friend yeah
what's the value of 700 books
I have to feel like it had some value
but maybe that's maybe that's my ego
trying to defend the amount of
investment of time that I had no no it
does have some value you have to spend a
lot of time reading those books to
recognize how useless they are
Oh
that's that I totally understand that
okay here we go yeah I completely
understand that um chat we're having
them at worst I'm still having a massive
difficulty with you cutting out I think
one way we could do this is um do you
want I can send you a zoom meeting okay
and then you literally just click that
and then we switch over that because
discord right now seems to be well now
it's better but it seems to be going in
and out we'll do that next call no
matter what okay um I'll just get you
set up on that it's way better okay okay
so I need it seems to be good now so I
need to read the books to understand
that I don't
need to know what's in the books yeah
[Music]
right so this is this is that this is
transcendence like you have to move
above and beyond the phenomena of like
reading and all that good stuff so like
this is where we when we kind of go back
to neuroscience here you are you're
telling me like isn't neuroscience
important is that neuroscience important
and I'm saying well oh [ __ ] one second
guys
yeah we'll get up on zoom' meeting this
next time chat so that that will work
like 1% that's how we do D and D never
interrupt and we have like six people
right
it's discord because you like we know
because when we switch services changes
that's why
so so Devin does that
so I think like oh yeah let's have value
and neuroscience has value and
ultimately I think one of the biggest
problems that I see practically is that
people go looking for answers in books
and I think you can learn a lot from
books but I've never mmm actually I was
about to say so I think I I was about to
say I've never heard of a book changing
someone's life but that's not true it
definitely can yeah and I mean I was
just thinking about my own life they're
books that have changed my life so but
changing your life is such a broad term
right yeah I mean I think I think what
you meant by change your life when you
initially said that was different like
chained your wife like an internal
realization like a moment of Satori
yeah Japanese yeah mm-hmm so I was um
this is a really good segue into
something that I definitely want to talk
to you about I was on a podcast I'm on
I'm on the there's the number one
podcast on twitch is this podcast called
the scuf podcast and I guess I've
somehow finagle my way into being
co-producer of this podcast and we bring
on different personalities usually
provocative personalities and there was
one particular person the show goes out
to tens of thousands of people's
significant right one particular person
came out and said the absolutely 100%
video game addiction does not exist
and the the way that they justified that
was they said there are no hard Studies
on video game addiction existing and
that it's basically this sort of
fabrication of mainstream media and and
and people to promote this idea of video
games being like this toxic influence on
people's lives now I countered with the
fact that I knew anecdotally and by
observation including of myself of a lot
of people that had video game addiction
and furthermore that by dismissing it in
the same way that you would dismiss like
depression or something will actually do
damage to all these people who really do
have these addictions and and
essentially like anything can be
addiction addiction but I because I
didn't have the science there I couldn't
mount a good argument and okay and more
or less III don't feel good about how it
ended up and I'd like to be better
equipped to handle that because of the
influence it can have was the person
researcher know they're a journalist
even worse okay yeah so you're you're
asking like what's the argument to make
that video game addiction exists I I
think it's a no I think I'm I'm starting
a conversation with you about video game
addiction and your take on it and then
from there maybe extrapolating onto like
where we can go uh if we have that
conversation with people okay wait wait
what's the what's the what's the thought
process you have around this well so I'm
tempted to kind of respond to that
person's point so like yeah is it okay
if I start there so the first thing is
Devin does the depression exist
[Music]
100% how do we know
well we know through a combination of
observation but also a lot of very
concrete studies that show beautiful
chemical differences in the brain yeah
as we keep serotonin lost and dopamine
yeah nope nope that's not what the
studies show it's not what the studies
show well with it were they let they
show so now we have to understand a
little bit about how psychiatric
diagnoses are made okay so
a millennia ago not really millennia ago
there was a group that came up with this
book called the DSM which is the
Diagnostic and statistics manual yeah so
what people were doing so a bunch of
Psychiatry researchers sat down they
scratch their head and they said we want
to study depression but like how do we
know who has depression and who doesn't
and specifically these people were very
interested in pharmacologic trials so
someone says like okay if I want to
study a drug to treat depression how can
i how can I decide like who qualifies
for depression and who doesn't like
where is the dividing line between
depression and not depression make
sounds so they came up with something
called the DSM which is like a checklist
of features so for example for major
depressive disorder there are nine
possible things and you have to check
five out of the nine boxes and if you
subject what you're checked huh because
I Freddie yeah we have this for
everything schizophrenia absolutely
absolutely absolutely so if you check
five out of the nine boxes you qualify
as depression and the whole reason they
came with the DS came up with the DSM is
because researchers were trying to
figure out if I'm studying a drug how
are we gonna know that the people that
I'm testing are the same people that
you're testing yeah so we have to come
up with a consensus for research to make
sure we're talking about generally
speaking the same thing okay this is
where the criteria for depression came
from and this is where the studies on
depression came from when we proved that
depression existed
we used a checklist that a group of
people came up with and we just sort of
by Fiat got together and decided this
means depression
there's no real scientific foundation
for our diagnosis of depression
there's no real be huh that can't be
because we can notice a chemical
difference in the brain and people that
are depressed I know we can do that okay
so but let's remember like order of
operations right when did we classify
depression as an illness and and as
neuroscience has come a really far away
but they're actually even now disputes
about whether people with depression
have lower serotonin levels than people
who don't have depression really yes all
we know is that serotonin boosting
agents seem to improve depression and we
have some really generous studies which
suggest that some neurotransmitters are
kind of messed up but if you actually
talk to neuro translating this research
it's so far from clinical application
because we just don't understand how the
brain works it's not like your serotonin
does all kinds of things it governs like
it governs like peristalsis in the gut
it governs like all kinds of chemical
signaling it governs like how your eyes
are able to see it governs all sorts of
stuff what yeah so let's think about
this think do you know how many
neurotransmitters there are no like a
dozen okay so there's like dopamine
there's serotonin
there's like there endogenous opioids
there like there's like there aren't
that many neurotransmitters because
remember that a neurotransmitter is a
signal mm-hmm it's something that like
and gets dumped into it something called
a synaptic cleft and then travels to a
neuron and then hits a receptor I mean
the kind of receptor that
how can i is it the kind of receptor it
activates triggers a completely
different thing
so we only have like a dozen
neurotransmitters and like even though
we have a dozen neurotransmitters our
brain is capable of doing all kinds of
things from creating music to holding in
our urine to falling in love and that's
just governed by a dozen
neurotransmitters okay but when we
remove dopamine from mice they don't eat
yep they lose motivation do anything
right so so what we can we can
individually control some of these
neurotransmitters to affect behavior yes
from that do you not think that we can
make some kind of conclusion as to what
these things are influencing yes
absolutely but let's be clear that's
just that's just some kind of conclusion
right so that's the money statement so
like our sense of Science in psychiatry
in addiction and stuff like that is very
different like so when when someone gets
pneumonia like that's pneumonia we can
see the bug we can give it an antibiotic
we can kill the bug and the person gets
better mental health is not like that so
I absolutely believe that depression
exists but if you really look at the
data the gap between basic science and
clinical application in psychiatry is
huge compared to any other system of
medicine you're saying there is no way
we can see depression in the brain
reliably no we have to observe it in the
behavior of the individual and their
self-report actually let me rephrase so
I'm not saying there's no way that we
can see it but what I can tell you is
that in the diagnosed so when I'm making
a diagnosis of depression an MRI is not
part of the diagnostic workup well
obviously no yeah well why is that
obvious because aren't we talking about
objectively because it's very hard from
a medical standpoint to like extract all
the chemicals to do a brain reading of
all the chemicals absolutely that's why
we do it so it's not because yeah the
first thing to understand is that for
this person to say there are no hard
studies that diagnose video game
addiction is a stupid statement because
there are nose into hard studies to
diagnose depression because depression
is a clinical diagnosis it's not a
biopsy like you can't buy up some biopsy
someone brain scan someone blood test
someone for depression you
just it's a clinical diagnosis in
addictions our clinical diagnosis and so
you can come up with criteria you can
make a clinical assessment with the idea
that there's some kind of silver bullet
like there is for a blood culture like
HIV is it sure I mean even then
practically you make it a clinical
diagnosis but there's a test that you
can prove whether someone has HIV or
doesn't have HIV this is also the case
of things like like herpes simplex virus
right we're like you can you can sort of
see that there are certain antibodies in
the bloodstream but there is absolutely
no way to see the actual virus like
things like there's all kind of stuff
like that right well yeah but I mean so
but that's just because seeing the
antibodies is easier but you can see the
actual like you can you can actually see
the virus because you can do something
called a viral load so that's like what
you do is you take some like I think
sample of I don't know if they test the
RNA but you can you can do like a load
which shows like what amount of HIV so
the antibody just tells you whether
you've been infected in the past or not
but there's another test called a viral
load which shows you like what's the
burden of virus in this person's body so
why don't we do that why don't we do
that for what like when we're doing
blood tests for people with viruses and
stuff to figure out how we do for HIV so
like for example so for HIV let's say
that like cuz you're gonna you know that
with HIV we have a lot of like resistant
strains so when I when I give you a
medicine I don't know if your HIV is
gonna be resistant to it or not so even
though you can have a positive antibody
a positive antibody just means that your
immune system has seen it before it
doesn't mean that you're actively
infected or not actively infected but
usually it means that you basically been
exposed which means there's a decent
chance you're infected but in order to
determine whether the medication is
working we do viral loads so you can do
that okay
interesting but there's nothing like
this no matter how granular you get with
mental health not yet
right because our understanding our
understanding of the brain in the mind
is in its infancy compared to like the
physiology of the heart or like our
understanding of like the gut
okay so then how do we evaluate that
someone actually has a real problem
it's it's it's the DSM and observational
yeah so so one so now the destroy the
DSM I'm not done yet
so remember them actually it's not a
clinical manual so the DSM was it's not
it's just it's a research manual so it's
a group of researchers saying how can we
agree that we're all talking about the
same thing okay so the the DSM was
developed for inclusion criteria for
studies so when you go and sign up for a
study they ask you are you depressed
so like if I if I'm doing a study and
I'm gonna say like I'm gonna do I'm
developing the Devin Nash treatment for
depression and then people say like okay
how are you gonna like find depressed
people I'm gonna ask him hey man are you
depressed and they're like yeah and I'm
like okay come on you're gonna spend an
hour with Devin Nash and then the end of
the hour I'm gonna ask you hey man are
you depressed and he says no and I'm
like boom done cured right so
researchers sat down and they were like
well we have to we have to figure out
like how are we gonna know whether
people get better how are we gonna know
like who to include how are we gonna
draw the line for where depression is
and that's when they came up with their
five out of nine criteria okay
then what happened is insurance
companies we're trying to figure out
okay this person says they're depressed
how do we know whether like we can't
blood test them so how do we know
whether we want to pay for their
treatment we're gonna see if they meet
DSM criteria because someone has a
criteria somewhere and we're an
insurance company and we want to see if
we pay for treatment whether it's gonna
get better or not get better in the
studies on antidepressants after all our
using these criteria so we're gonna use
billing reimbursement and things like
that based on the DSM and when the
measures companies started doing it
always subjective huh the criteria
itself is totally get back to the the
whole the thing you said at the very
first part of this talk is the 2000
calorie limit absolute a bunch of people
came to consensus and said it was a
thing so it is a thing absolutely right
it's the same way that the dollar has
value because we all got together and
agreed so like the the thing to remember
about medicine which I think a lot of
people don't realize there's a lot of
medicine is
very scientific right so medicine is
like a clinical discipline so at the end
of the day you know like even after all
of this testing if you really look at
studies 90% of clinical diagnosis
doesn't matter what field of medicine
you're in like 90% of diagnosis is made
clinically a doctor comes in like a
cancer is like for the most part
diagnosed clinically no [ __ ] yeah
absolutely
how do you think that the person ends up
getting a biopsy in the first place like
why don't you like Devin are you getting
a biopsy tomorrow hopefully not yeah I
don't feel bad yeah and furthermore the
last time you saw your doctor did he
send you in for a cancer biopsy he did
not but I did do a full round of blood
tests the month ago and everything and
nothing came up weird so we do so and
that's the scientific thing right so
like we looked at all the levels of
different things in my body
triglycerides hba1c right and everything
appeared within normal ranges whatever
that is so we made a determination that
I don't need a biopsy or anything else
yeah so but but even then so it sounds
like you did some routine testing I mean
we won't go into details about that but
like the whole reason that someone
orders is like when a doctor says okay I
want to get a biopsy or I want to get a
scan it's because their clinical
suspicion no like you've been having
weight loss and you've got a lump
growing on your shoulder let's biopsy
that like it's all clinical right so
it's not actually so tests and medicine
are used to confirm diagnosis not to
find diagnosis so the first thing that
this person doesn't understand is like
video game addiction has the same
standard meets the same standard as like
depression there's no blood tests for
schizophrenia
yeah there's no brain scan for
first of psychosis or anything like that
we literally
wait wait okay hold on okay cuz this is
insane yep
if you take the brain of a psychotic
patient who you who is like saying
there's a pink elephant right there that
is yelling at me then you take the brain
of a normal person there's no difference
you can't there's no reading or test we
can do that tell the difference we knows
two people nope okay
in Alzheimer's people if you I know for
a fact if you take the the brain scans
they do look different eventually see
the matter of the brain is reduced yes
so Alzheimer's is something we can
diagnose scientifically actually
technically Alzheimer's can only be
diagnosed through autopsy in biopsy but
that's besides so so this is what we see
the the brain matter is reduced yep I
mean well the reason that you can't
diagnose Alzheimer's through that is
because there are a lot of reasons why
brain matter can be reduced like what
else could produce brain matter so any
other of the dementing diseases are we
lose brain matter just over the course
of life if you have things like vascular
disease your brain matter can be smaller
like there are all kinds of reasons your
brain mass can be reduced so Alzheimer's
can really only be diagnosed by a biopsy
technically so it's a clinical diagnosis
okay but psych Coast you could take a
psychotic patient who is literally
screaming at a wall that there are bugs
coming out of it and then you can take
another person right next to them who's
like hey man how's it going and they
look exactly the same one on any kind of
technology we have to tell they don't
look exactly the same but there isn't
enough information from either scan to
differentiate like if I showed a
radiologist a picture of a psychotic
person in a picture of you
the radiologist would not be able to
tell you which one is which which
doesn't even have a say mission huh
would even have a suspicion that one is
the other probably North literally 55th
probably not although I do think that if
you take on average people who have
psychotic disease over time there are
some findings in the brain on average
but those are like research findings
that are not like they're not enough of
a smoking gun to be clinically useful
yet does that make sense kind of but is
that a technicality because isn't it
isn't the correlation to actually become
clinically you still like incredibly
high like we need we have a really high
standard for something to become
clinically correlated yes
and so is there a fair argument in
saying that at some point you would have
to dispense with that really high
standard to make any kind of progress
whatsoever
because like for example in nutrition
right there I could point you to this
something I know a lot about so you
teach this um you can't you this is the
same problem you can't really point I
can't really tell you that vegetables
are better for you because like when you
really look down into the data it
doesn't objectively show that but I can
[ __ ] tell you that vegetables are
better for you yeah you see what I mean
yeah
so and I think that's just like there's
a shortcoming of science so like we're
not willing to dispense so I mean
practically there are some cases where
if I have a psychotic patient I will
order an MRI but that's because if this
clinical diagonals story doesn't fit
with psychosis then sometimes so for
example if you like it's just like let's
say like you walked into the IDI and you
have no history of psychosis you're a
high functioning dude you're socially
capable and you're like hallucinating
I'm gonna order a blood test or you're
in rest yes
for what for like cocaine in marijuana
and LSD so yeah so like there are tests
and tests have value but usually tests
for psychosis or to rule out because
psychosis can be caused by more than
schizophrenia
right they can because psychosis can be
caused by drugs so the experience of
hallucinations can be caused by drugs
they can be caused by some illnesses hmm
so like if you have a brain tumor you
can become psychotic yeah that's nice
yeah so like like there is value in
ordering brain scans on people who have
mental illness to rule out organic
causes or like primary like their mount
mental illness is secondary to something
else that's going on in their body right
so for a good one is like some people
who are depressed that's because their
thyroid hormone is very low and if you
like because they're like thyroids shot
so if you give them thyroid hormone
their depression goes away so like
testing has a role in psychiatry but
it's just you know if this if someone
says oh like there haven't been good
studies proving video game addiction
exists well yeah but that's because like
[ __ ] Mario was developed in 1980 and
we've had depression like rolling
through our population for the last
5,000 plus years like it's depression
well there isn't there that meme that
like people got started to get depressed
like when the industrial era came about
like is that is that true is it do we
have depression like going back like
there's Romans have read up a brochure
yeah absolutely yeah but I do think that
we got more depressed one once the
industrial area came along and we're
getting even more depressed now
the suicide rate amongst adolescents has
gone up by 50% in the last seven years
in the last seven years global you're in
the United States I think us oh my god
whatsit adolescent adolescent that's
someone under the age of eight swing
like 12 and 18 12 to 18 so the rate of
suicide for adolescents has gone up 50%
in seven years people think 1218 I think
it's adolescence and not everyone but I
could be wrong there and it's also true
that middle-aged white men are the most
common suicidal or people to commit
suicide
yes so men commit if you take a hundred
people who commit suicide 80 of them are
gonna be men
I think it's a four to one ratio oh my
god white male priviledge baby Jesus
okay so okay so the whole hard studies
no heart states to diagnose depression
this almost ties back into your point
that we can't really trust external Jets
of reality they're like bit like
remember we were going back to like wow
that's that's a broad connection but
because because um your whole point I
think that's like that's trying to like
sometimes I try to like find like a
theme of a talk yeah yeah I hear ya yeah
and I feel like the theme of today was
like we really can't trust our outside
experience so so and the only way that
you as a clinician are evoking this idea
of someone being depressed is by
receiving listening to their internal
experience and then interpreted it for
them yeah right I mean I guess just
their subjective internal experience
right so I'll use like how they look
what their face displays how they sound
so I mean I need sensory data
okay so it then I am I am more lost than
I've ever been before
okay now we can get started it's because
like if you have if you have nothing all
right
let's say Devin what's your question
just just what's your question man
what's your question I have tons of
questions okay
like just ask the one that's in your
head
well that's it done I think it's done
but here we go um if you're floating in
a tank and you need something to hold on
to but by definition there are no walls
because everything is external all you
have is yourself what do you do see that
so that's why I have to think about my
questions before I ask them because I
don't make sense
so I mean because I think that that's
what the Yogi's discover right at the
end of the day
so the way to understand what your
consciousness is is to check into it in
all kinds of different moments so like
when I meditated I found this part of me
that seemed to be like calm and peaceful
and empty horribly empty terrifyingly
empty and at the same time wonderfully
comforting but just like it's kind of
like looking at the Grand Canyon it's
like it's crazy but it's also
magnificent it's like terrifying and
awe-inspiring and and that's what you
sort of feel on the inside when you have
some spiritual experiences of meditation
and then I went through my life and I
got pretty good at tapping into that so
I could basically tap into it whenever I
wanted mm-hmm and then I went through
various experiences in my life where I
was wondering whether
um like I was wondering whether I could
have an experience what that would take
that away so as I got more and more
grounded in it then like I remembered
like the you know my dad passed away and
like I was like at his funeral and and
like despite the fact that I was
grieving I still found that sort of calm
peaceful emptiness within Muniz like oh
that's kind of interesting that's still
there
and if I tapped into it I sort of felt
okay like even though I was feeling
grief and sadness there was something
inside me that felt tranquil and then a
few weeks later I got married and so
that's presumably you know a very happy
day of my life and even during that
happiness like I felt that same amount
of like emptiness and void within me and
I was like oh like that's that's the one
thing in my life that is completely
constant
so can I let me ask you like
[Music]
do you
you've done this like incredible amount
of self introspection and study and
meditation but when you appear to me as
a person who still struggles with
all the problems of being human right
you still getting depressed I assume and
you still get like anxious sometimes and
things like that
sure like so I don't know I'll give on
your off time like when you get off the
call like you're like fighting Dormammu
or something with the powers that you've
gained from like Tibetan meditation or
whatever but like like what it seems to
me is like if do you feel like you've
gone somewhere like what is the point of
all this if you're still just going to
experience suffering and an anxiety and
depression and you have all these things
like where did you end up like where are
you today that makes any difference in
the path that you've taken why should we
do it well is it because I think I
suffer less than many other people you
do yeah
why do you think that because I found
that thing within like that's my whole
point right like remember we're talking
about what Luca and so I did get better
for you yeah well so the emotional paint
so my cancer pain remains still in nine
it just doesn't know me as much alright
that's the reason you do that's worth do
you think that's worth it you know
absolutely because that's the only thing
that's worth it
that's the only thing that's worth it
yeah because like so now when I like
when when stuff goes well for me or
doesn't go well for me like I tend to be
like okay with either one
okay with what either one either one so
so Devin like the whole reason so when
we think about like when I think about
my the change in my life right from
being like failing out of college and
graduating with a 2.6 like you would
think that after applying to medical
school for two years in a row and
getting over a hundred and forty
rejections I would be bummed out yeah
and like you would think that I would
stop
but like the whole point is that sure I
felt disappointment but I also felt
tranquility and so I just kept doing it
and and like that's the value right so
what's happened is that I'm no longer I
mean I am but for the most part I think
like cuz I'm not a different person this
is like this has to be understood like
people think that I made some amazing
transformational change like 2.6 GPA
instructor in psychiatry at Harvard
Medical School like that's a big gap and
people think that you have to like
change a lot like the whole point that I
try to tell people is I'm actually not
that smart like I'm not I'm just not
that like I'm smart like I know I'm
smart but I'm not like that smart that's
probably not true so so let's say if you
looked at you if you looked at the if
you did IQ test you probably like 130
140 150 like you have to realize you
probably have an insane amount of I
think about this a lot with like what a
software engineers and people like that
like they just come in with such a high
IQ and the ability to cognate of these
things so look it's such a huge let me
rephrase yeah so when I look at other
people and I think about my trajectory
in life in their trajectory in life I
don't think that IQ is the thing that's
responsible for my success I think it is
being able to not let my negative
experiences impact my intentions
because I'm telling you like I'm not
that like you look at like people who
are addicted to video games like a lot
of them are [ __ ] brilliant
yeah like this is what I'm telling you
because when I when I when I play with
my friends so like I have a group of
people that I used to play dota with and
I think I'm I'm objectively far more
successful than than they are but I'm
pretty sure I'm not much smarter or
smarter at all yeah a degree I serious I
write like well there's a ton of people
that play video games they're believably
smart so yeah it's that's what I'm
saying I'm not like I'm I'm definitely
smarter than like the average person
walking down the street probably
substantially smarter than the average
person walking down the street but I
think if you look at video games video
games select for people who have very
high IQs why
yeah so very simple so let me ask you
something so I'll tell you a story that
a video of someone gamer I was working
with so video gamer is in second grade
they go into math class and teacher says
here's your math worksheet for the day
the kid looks at it fills it out in
about 10 minutes
walks up to the teacher and says here's
the worksheet can I have the next one
what do you think the teacher says
teacher says that's what we're doing
today you'll get the next one tomorrow
okay please sit down and quietly sit at
your desk and the kid goes back so then
what happens is like school moves at the
pace of the slowest kid yeah right so
that happens as this kid goes home and
then he beats level one of ninja gayden
and do you know what's waiting for him
well - absolutely yeah so if you're a
smart kid why the [ __ ] would you want to
invest in a classroom that is just 50
minutes of boring in 10 minutes of
interesting versus
a intellectual challenge that is
literally paced exactly to you because
you know what if he's not ready for
level two you know what he has trouble
doing
you can't beat chess how about level 1
absolutely
yeah yeah so video games for smart kids
video games give them the intellectual
challenge that they don't find in the
rest of their life
mm yeah it's not complicated it's not
like some deep scientist it's just like
it says yeah hmm so like one of the
reasons that video games are addictive
is because they're perfectly paced to
you know job is perfectly paced to you
know class is perfectly paced to you
right like no wonder people like playing
video games yeah they're gonna there
it's like video games are like a
spiritual like an enlightened spiritual
guru who meets you exactly where you are
and knows the next step you need to take
accept in a weird way you're not getting
any benefit from playing them you're not
getting any benefit why is that well you
know so why is it well what I'm saying
it's like if you accomplish a hard task
in real life it has like a reverberation
to it that like results in like positive
outcomes for you but if you do that in a
video game it's ephemeral it's not quite
there why is that well I think that's
because generally speaking we think
about hard tasks is having real-world
value so our society tends to value
things that are harder to do ie back to
our burrito for you know eating burritos
for a million dollars we tend to pay
people more based on the difficulty of
what they do not the difficulty of what
they do but how rare it is for someone
to be able to do it yeah yeah
but but uh what I'm saying is on the
same token so what say that you complete
like a really hard like Ninja Gaiden
it's actually funny bringing up that's a
very hard game yeah especially the
original ones are some of the hardest
games like out there so let's say you
actually do beat Ninja Gaiden and you go
all the way through that sense of
accomplishment that you get as a result
of completing that is ephemeral it just
kind of floats away but in real life
when you do something that is really
difficult like you build a house or you
or you know what that is probably a big
stream thing some equivalent thing of
value like you create something or
something it seems to have more staying
power do you know what I mean yeah I
don't have a good way to describe this
like what I'm trying to ask is like why
is it that the accomplishments that come
from video games just sort of float away
from us they escape us it's like they're
not even real to begin with I know they
aren't but there's a lot of
accomplishments in real life that we can
do like get a girlfriend for example
well because like no I understand your
question so it's like it's like I'm
gonna I'm gonna read into your question
a little bit the first premise that I
think you're making is that for a few
moments the accomplishment that you get
in the video game feels the same as a
real life exactly but it lasts right so
like that's the first thing to recognize
and this is where once again your brain
doesn't know the difference like your
brain is actually and in some way
relatively smart and also incredibly
stupid your brain doesn't understand the
all the brain understand so you have
this thing that there's a actually xx I
have a youtube video all about this
about something that I call the triumph
circuit and the brain doesn't understand
so you get like a dopamine reward upon
completing a task that is proportional
to the difficulty of the task okay and
if you think about it like if you use
like a god mode cheat code in a video
game does the video game become more or
less fun oh it sucks yeah yeah so our
brain is wired to get more of a dopamine
response when there's difficulty
involved and so like why do people love
dark souls because it's hard absolutely
yeah and you really really have to
figure out the exact
and how does it feel when you when you
do well in Dark Souls right yeah so this
is where someone made a fascinating
discovery back in 2014 that videogames
are addictive not because of the reward
but because of the denial of the Lord
that separates them from all other like
drug addictions when when I shoot up
heroin there's no chance that I'm not
gonna get high like that's the whole
thing right
every time I smoke pot it's gonna be
good every time i snort coke it's gonna
be good
every time I get smashed it's gonna be
good I mean there are problems but
biologically like I'm gonna get the
reward from the alcohol
what makes videogames so damn addictive
is that you get the rewards sometimes
like why do you think so many people
play law in Fortnight it's because you
don't win very often and this also goes
back to the loot box problem right I'm
like why do people continuously invest
tens of thousands of dollars in blue
plus cuz you're not sure you're going to
get the epic skin that you want and and
they're there at a governmental level
like the UK is looking at this like holy
[ __ ] like this is so addictive that we
might have to ban this across our
country because this is so bad because
those are the those that's the way that
it interacts with us yeah yeah that
makes perfect sense so now going back to
your original question why is it
ephemeral it's because the video games
tickle one part of your mind but don't
tickle other parts of your mind so when
we think about triumph in the real world
there are other things that go with it
so when I for example when I graduated
with a medical degree that was a hard
road and I actually felt neutral when I
graduated
it's a side result of meditation but
there's also a lot of other things that
are tied into that right so like that
means that like when I meet someone
they're going to greet me in a
particular way which reinforces that hi
that means that when I you know when I
get pulled over like like I have a
disaster pass so a couple years ago
there was a hurricane and like I get to
go places that other people don't get to
go because I have an MD after my name
that's awesome yeah I never even thought
of that but that actually makes perfect
sense like people would send you into a
relief zone because I go it's a [ __ ]
doctor so like it like like if there's
like if there's a hurricane and there's
like a barrier with cop cars I Drive up
to the cop car I show my badge and they
waved me through that's it's saying
right
so like there are other things in
society that reinforced that
accomplishment whereas like when you
play with and play ninja gayden like
what happens after yeah you beat it and
then like you can make a forum post on
reddit about it so that's very important
so if you make the forum post and it
gets uploaded what happens to your hai
from beating the game right continues
absolutely right yeah and then you end
up is a streamer and now suddenly and
now suddenly you have subs and you have
people and people watch you and now
you're not so different from an MD with
a disaster pass right because you're
going to twitchcon
and then then muricans I don't think so
yeah but they didn't get into all the
stress and all that crap well but this
this [ __ ] stress of being a doctor I
mean you like like for sure so it
becomes this you're saying it becomes
the same as some level like because yeah
I'm sure like Shroud is the best FPS
player in existence right I mean he's a
literal god of FPS and he definitely has
the societal clout to back that up and
in tons of opportunities at the same
time there's a lot of stress I mean for
you um did you do practicing like did
you you've um you've been in a hot I'm
sorry I don't know what about this but
you've like been in a hospital and
people come to you and be like doctor
I've got this problem yeah right okay so
you actually and that's long hours and
like really hard and stuff so like
there's a lot of stress like the stress
of being a doctor's like some of the
highest stress there is right so I don't
think that that's stressful so it's hard
work but I don't think it's stressful I
so like for example the you know once
again this is kind of weird I enjoyed
being on call so like I actually found
rather than going to the office from
9:00 to 5:00 I love the feeling of being
like I sort of got a lot of
gratification out of like being the guy
being the guy yeah so like you know when
when something so when I take call it or
when I used to take call at Mass General
there are two psychiatrists who are
working overnight one of them is a
senior and one of them is a junior and
the junior works are exclusively in the
emergency room and the senior works in
the emergency room and covers anything
else that happens in the 960 beds in the
hospital okay and so like if someone has
a psychiatric problem overnight like I
get paged and I go there and like I
really enjoyed that like I sort of like
working intensely for long periods of
time and then like relaxing for long
periods of time like the 9 to 5 grind
just hasn't worked for me because of my
automatic dough shot which we can talk
about one day but well what does that
mean that as a practice of it's a really
old practice of medicine yeah so it's
traditional Indian medicine and the big
thing that I read that says that Western
medicine doesn't say is that people are
fundamentally different so there are
different kinds of cognitive
fingerprints so just as an example
I have a particular kind of memory where
I seem very intelligent because I learn
things very quickly and I'm very dynamic
but I also lose things very quickly like
I wanted to go I had a medical student
rotating with me and I forgot the five
out of nine criteria for depression and
it's just because I don't you like I'm
gonna lose it like it so my memory I
pick things up fast and I lose things
fast and she said I have the same way I
never thought about myself that way
though yeah yes and so a lot of people
like think that they're not as smart or
but but it's just their minds are
different and you have to understand
like what your mind is good at and what
your mind is bad at and it's not just
raw IQ there are different kinds of
memory there are different kinds of like
so I'm someone who so my mind is very
dynamic so I get bored very easily but I
can work intensely for short periods of
time and other people are like slow and
steady wins the race like some people
are like you know for example I try to
write from time to time and people are
like the way that you write is you have
to just do like you have to sit down you
today what one page a day and I'm not
like that what I'll do is write the
Horta Cole and they need to take yeah
yeah so I woke up yesterday morning and
I was like I figured out anxiety I know
everything about anxiety and it just
came to me like a flash of brilliance i
sat down put a lot of it out and it was
done it's not done yet but like I got
like 70% of yeah yeah yeah I'm exactly
the same as actually create and so the
crazy thing is that people don't
recognize that your personality and your
cognitive fingerprint is not optimized
to certain jobs or careers and if you
want to be successful you have to figure
out okay what kind of memory do I have
what kind of when people have started to
understand this in terms of like
introversion and extraversion like some
people recognize oh I'm just not a
people person
so if I want to do really well like I
need time to be alone and like not have
other people bother their me to be
productive and so the more you
understand these kinds of things you
know the more productive you're going to
be the more successful we're gonna be in
an aria vedic tradition has there's
there's there's types of bodies right
and they're related to elements fire yes
water yes I don't one of them is a peat
Pitta yeah you have you have some yet
you're like bit devatta yeah yeah yeah I
think so yeah
that's-that's-that's soap it PETA is
fire yep and Vaughn says water vatta's
air and ether each one has two elements
okay so I'm so the one way to think
about bath has a little like the wind so
the wind blows really hard in one
direction and then stops and then blows
really hard in the other direction and
then stops and you used another word
called dosha what is that
so Vata Pitta and kapha dosha that's
like the class that's the class of thing
okay yeah so so so because of your yeah
I'm totally on page okay because I know
I know a little bit about this yeah yeah
so I think like a lot of people don't
recognize that if you're so I'm like the
wind so part of the reason that and I
think you are too so you do more than
one thing because you just get really
bored if you just had a job or you just
did twitch streaming you have to be
doing a lot of different things so one
of the best pieces of advice that I got
was from an Ayurvedic doctor who has
studying with and he said in order for
you to be successful you have to juggle
as many balls as you can without
dropping a single one
in order for you to be successful yet to
drop as you have to juggle what they
mean by that so that I should handle
like so part of my problem he was
basically telling me I should do as many
different things as I can and still do
them well I shouldn't focus on just one
thing because he knew that if you
focused on one thing you become bored
and you would yes yeah mm-hmm so now
like I mean I'd this a whole healthy
gamer stuff I have a private practice I
was at a conference today talking about
technology and health I like you know I
play video games I work with eSports
professionals yeah
I run retreats like if I'm just doing
the same thing every week I'm just gonna
get bored and I'm gonna suck at all of
it yeah I totally understand I'm exactly
the same way that's right but just by
curiosity do you have a similar read out
in terms of are you betta called OSHA do
you have the same tendency that you
sense to me I think yours is either more
applying more Vata and you're more bitte
you also have some gafas more than I do
I'm very extreme in terms of vaca and
have a fair amount of pizza whereas I
think you have some Vata I'd say a fair
amount of pizza do you get angry easily
I used to okay and then now I almost I
don't I used to have a huge problem with
yeah so I think your your bit the
predominant with some amount of vodka
and Gotha as well like also your your
hair pattern is consistent with a bit
though yeah mmm okay it's very cool wow
that's super interesting
okay um real quick sorry Jade just
hosted us I don't know of any way of you
saw it Jade thank you very much that for
everybody's just joining I was like 900
people so this real quick it's um
we are meeting with dr. I actually
produce your I actually got your name
here so that I could produce because I
realized I've been pronounced as you
introduced yourself before allo Canoga
no it's all Lok I look Devon it's easy
buddy
it's not all maple it's all oak all oak
perfect just like the original Sun
script kenosha yeah yes a report though
yeah okay
all oak is a Harvard psychiatrist and
he's talking to us today about gaming
and in concerns to mental health and
we're going into some really deep
subjects ultimately to try to we're kind
of like building a profile and
foundation of how to be what would you
say be better mentally through through
under but through itself understand kind
of like integrating gaming in a way
that's like healthy and and yeah I mean
I I think yeah Devon so what I tried to
do like so you know we have classes for
things right we have classes for like
mathematics in history yeah and we're
formerly taught how these things work
like you go to school and you learn
computer science and then you like learn
how to program we're never taught how we
work
think about that for subtly yeah no IIIi
have like the same way that we're not
we're not taught how to do a lot of
things that really used to like bounce a
checkbook or things like that like so we
don't know we're never taught where do
our desires come from how does my memory
work what are the things that I'm good
at what are the things that I'm bad at
right we're not taught how we function
as human beings and so at the end of the
day like you can learn as much as you
want to about medicine or screaming or
whatever but unless you understand
yourself you may still do a good job but
you're gonna suffer doing it right so
like at some point Devin you and I need
to talk about why streaming is so
painful for you like I get the truth you
have the strength to do it
but because it's gonna get into impostor
syndrome which is like a huge aspect of
my life yes so we're talking about
impostor syndrome oh yeah of course
okay yes you know the first thing that
you we messaged about I thought we were
gonna talk about impostor syndrome on
day one and now we've gone two days
without talking about it sure but I have
you know I have some thousand people
here right that I think could benefit
more from these conversations we're
having so far and setting this like
foundation of like how we can help
people over the average even though I
know you don't like averages that much
like and and through that I think we can
do greater good than talk about my
individual issues and I don't think most
people here have that issue of imposters
and they're probably but some people
probably you would be surprised you
think so and I think you have to be a
little bit careful because I wonder how
much your mind is hiding behind the
greater good as a reason to not confront
your imposter syndrome a lot yeah yeah
yeah but what I'm saying it's like I've
in an effort to not make it more of a I
always try to make shows less personal
if I think that they're going to be for
the greater good but if it's if I think
that my personal application can
actually you want to good then I will
talk about it it's good if you could get
well I think that you're smarter than me
so we'll talk about that I thought we
talked about like you why do you mm-hmm
we talked about IQ I'm not smarter than
you
more aware of this subject matter sure
I'll take more experienced any day of
the week sure because I think because I
think if we really delve deep what
people are most interested in is this
thing you said I think it is not letting
my negative experiences impact my
intention I feel like if there is one
problem that gamers have and you
identify this as well and this is what
if we're if we're gonna go in next week
and really delve deep into something it
can be the imposters everything if you
want I'm up for that but I think like
really trying to understand
how to bridge the chasm between God I
want this thing I want to do this so bad
I want to be successful I want to
actualize this in my life and then day
after day goes by and you can't do that
that's also a problem that's personal to
me by the way to this day every day I
have that problem I like one of the
things that yeah dear listen to me if
you're saying that you have this problem
in your personal life and you're saying
that what I want to show people on my
stream is how their negative experiences
don't interfere with their intentions so
that they can accomplish what they want
to you know saying you struggle with
that problem you're saying they struggle
with that problem
what is the way in which you struggle
with that problem well I think that's
what we're supposed to talk about next
right absolutely and you don't think
that's going to be helpful to them
okay so you're saying you view the
imposter system thing as a negative
experience of mine so that we get if we
understand that negative experience and
how it impacts my intention then we can
full circle maybe to apply to other
people as well yeah okay you see that's
his escape code says that yeah okay yeah
Devin is hiding behind his nobility it's
one of the most it's the one of the the
most difficult it's one of the easiest
places to hide he is behind a noble
cause yeah it's really good I'm super
good at doing this yep yeah I can tell I
probably do like ten more of these and
we would never even talk about it no no
it would be fine yeah but Devin I'm not
gonna let you my friend I mean I forget
about it next week and then yeah that's
usually how I get people yeah are you
feeling uncomfortable
um no I'm good obviously like like it I
I really when I when it comes to like I
really am an open book
I'm so good about anything yeah and well
I won't regret it
um I don't think that all the stuff that
people actually like make fun of me over
on the Internet is not the stuff that
actually gets to me because the number
one criticism of me is like lol you're
you're just to pretend you're not really
successful
I actually know I'm successful so that
doesn't do anything to me so like not
worried about that um yeah I like I'm
totally fine and going forward in this
conversation or yeah so I mean I think
we should do that next time do you have
other kind of thoughts or questions or
anything before we kind of I got to
probably get going soon okay um yes so
so I think one of the really important
things to establish base them just like
the subject matter of the talk that
we've had was
uh sort of what I like to have is like a
kind of like
objective take away so what we discussed
today had a lot to do with how relying
on these sort of external markers of
what mental health is or what comparison
right like like this person is so much
healthier than me or this person could
accomplish so much more than me or these
studies say I can do this or I can't do
this
that is really an unreliable barometer
and that a more reliable methodology is
looking to yourself for answers so for
everyone listening to this how can what
what is something we can do between this
week and next week where we can start to
look into ourselves for those answers
and stop at what what practice can we
utilize to stop paying attention to
those external barometers and start
focusing internally more what could we
do what's it what's it what's an
objective take away we could do
absolutely so let me just rephrase for a
second so I think that external stuff is
good for hypothesis generation right
it's not good on stuff is good okay so
like like I think it's important to like
learn about neuro neuroscience and then
use that is is like a guide for to for
you to explore your own experience
select to use like theories of cognitive
behavioral theory or neuroscience or
reading about spirituality but then test
it yourself because to the fact that it
worked for anyone else doesn't mean it's
it's gonna work for you so you have to
test it for yourself what so you're
saying what is that yeah right like what
is that will you say you have to test it
for yourself what I'm saying is I what
let's say that we just perfectly
accomplished today
and and the takeaway now that hopefully
a lot of people have is like man I
should really think more about my own
internal experience of things
what are they what's that you've just
given them a clay mold and now I'm
asking you to help them turn it into
something what over the next week can we
do two actually
cauterize this process okay so well I
don't know about external stuff because
I think that's even a little bit I feel
like that's step two so I think step one
is think about something that you want
to do
and then like right down
what's getting in the way of you doing
it
and more specifically what I'm looking
for yeah more specifically if you need a
little bit more guidance on that so I
think you should write down and then
there's a second part to the exercise
chances are your first answer will be
cognitive it'll be something like I
don't have enough time or someone does
this or some someone does that when you
actually think about doing it do you
feel any emotions or even physical
sensations that come up as you bring
yourself to do it so try to get as close
as you can to doing it and as you do it
or as you prepare to do it like what
comes up for you physically or
emotionally either one is fine so just
as an example like let's say that you
need to get a job so when you think
about getting a job like like I want you
to actually go and apply for something
anything and as you think about going
and applying for something what are the
kinds of like resistances that keep you
in place
does that make sense the last part I'm a
little bit lost
so like something is gonna get in the
way like if I say like okay I need a job
and then let's say that like I tell
myself that I needed a job but and if I
say like okay so like what is a job I
can apply for I can apply for a job at
McDonald's and I think about like I'm
not actually gonna apply for a job at
McDonald's like that's ridiculous like a
job at McDonald's is like like I'm
better than that and so as you think
about applying for a job at McDonald's
what do you actually feel comes up right
like why do you resist doing the thing
that you want to do
why do you
okay yeah this makes sense and that
resistance has to be in the form of a
physical or emotional response no so I'd
start by being open-ended so you can
write down while you're not doing it
yeah chances are though that's gonna be
a cognitive answer so I want people to
dig a little bit deeper so give that a
shot like open source you can try
whatever you write down whatever you
want to the second thing so after you do
that then tunnel down into like what are
the emotions that I'm feeling or what
are the physical sensations that I feel
yeah like oh I want to tell this girl
than I like her as you like pick up the
phone and you dial her number like what
happens inside your body like what do
you feel in your chest what do you feel
in your stomach and just write that down
and then we have to and then that said
all you all you need to do is be aware
of that for now for now hmm all right
okay yeah good yeah that's right okay
well Devin thanks a lot man this has
been fun do you want it will you so
should we like do this next Friday - you
wanna just I would absolutely yeah so
let's look as I think if we're doing
exercises we have to follow up on them
yeah sure okay
and you're still streaming right hi oh
of course yeah I would I'll stream the
whole thing and no no I mean like you're
streaming now can i raid you uh yeah
sure of course if you want yeah Red
Devil all right man thank you very much
it's it's been a blast I mean thank
thank you so much I think I I cannot
understand how much people are getting
out of this like the our our first talk
I got so many messages dude like and
like I did crazy stuff on this channel
all the time but like it wasn't like
this this is this is like this mate this
matters so Devin thank you so much I'm
glad people are finding this helpful I'm
glad that you're sort of facilitating
that help and be careful because the
more that that thought grows in your
mind the easier it's gonna be for you to
hide behind your own [ __ ] okay right as
if you're doing really great work for
the masses we never need to talk about
you because like oh my god like it was
so impactful for them like you see how
your minds doing that it's taking a
wonderful thing and you know it
turns on it so you gotta be cared for
getting what do we do thank you guys
very much I'll see you next time thank
you